So we've
got our pork loin, and this is what
generally fetches the highest retail value
generally because of its tenderness and,
well, marketability, it's
this is where we get all of our pork
chops from and we get our tenderloin
and we get our sirloin, et cetera.
So we're going to go ahead
and just start taking it apart
into its different sections.
And the first muscle
that I want to pull off
is the tenderloin,
which is this muscle that sits right here.
OK, so the tenderloin
is actually cylindrical in shape,
and it's cradled in on this bone
underneath of it, so we just normally need
to find where the tail of the tenderloin
is or where it meets up with the rack.
And then what I'm going to do
is I'm just going to run my knife along
that backbone.
And then at a certain
point, once I've come all the way down
to the bone where it's cradle, then
I can start using it, my fingers
to work it away
to minimize the amount of knife work
that I need to do that allows me to.
Pretty much pull it right out.
So once we get it to this stage,
I'm just going to come with my knife
on the tip of my knife
on the other side of it.
And there is our tenderloin.
So I'm actually going to start
by taking the sirloin off,
and where do I want to take up
the sirloin?
I'm looking for the discs in the spine
as my markers.
So where the tailbone meets up
with the backbone,
there's going to be a disc right here.
That's not the one I want.
I want the one in towards the rack.
So I'm going to use my steak knife.
I'm going to go
right into the disc itself,
right, and then I'm going to bring it down
like so.
So once I've gone through that disc
and made my knife cut,
we take the saw
and just go through the vertebrae here.
Sorry, the disc into that section
just a few passes
until I'm done coming to the bone.
Then I'll go through with my steak
knife
and I'm just going to finish off that cut.
Now I've removed my sirloin section.
OK, the next part I'm going to take off
is the rack,
so I'm looking for my very last rib.
So that's the one I'm going to be using.
So again, same technique.
I'm just going to come into this section
here and make a cut down,
take my saw through a couple of passes.
Now I can come through
and cut this section off.
There is going to be a rib here.
So a little trick that I like to use
is, I'll actually free that rib
with my boning knife.
So it's a little bit more flexible now
I can come through and cut that loin out.
So now I've got my three sections.
I've got my rack,
my midloin and my sirloin.